Hi.
And welcome to this video on identifying names. And in particular we're really just going to look at
some rules that we need to follow when creating identifying names, and some conventions as well.
So let's start with the fact that identifier names are case sensitive.
In other words you know my_var with that lowercase v, my_Var with the uppercase V, or ham with a lowercase
h or ham with an uppercase H.
These are all different identifiers. So identify as are case sensitive. So you could write you know one
variable as ham one variable as Ham with a capital H.
And you could use both of those in your code as separate identifiers. Really not recommended that you
do so, at least not with variables.
There is a case where this might actually be useful when dealing with classes, but generally not something
you should do.
It can be pretty confusing if somebody is reading your code. So identifiers must follow certain rules,
and they should follow certain conventions.
And let's take a look at what those are.
Let's start with the musts first.
So they must start with an underscore or a letter a through z or capital A through Z.
Now this is actually a little stricter than in written than reality because you can use other characters
besides a through z and A through Z but you should be a little bit careful about which ones you use.
It gets more complicated.
You can use also Unicode characters or,
not that these aren't Unicode characters as well but I'm sticking to the ASCII set basically.
So, be careful with that. The easiest is just to say we'll stick to a through z for the letters. So
they must have an underscore or a letter, and then they can be followed by any number of underscores
letters or digits.
So really the thing here is that you cannot start an identifier with a digit.
OK.
So don't try that.
That won't work. So for example var,
my_var, index1, index underscore 1 are all legal names, underscore var is legal as well.
Double underscore or
Dunder var is also legal as is Dunder lt Dunder.
That's also a legal identifier name.
Now I've highlighted these in a different color and I'll explain that in a minute.
But these kind of forms of variable names by convention have a specific meaning attached to them.
So the other thing too is that identifiers cannot be reserved words. Then what are the reserved words?
Well, None,
True False and or not if else elif, you get the idea.
Basically the key words that you use to program in Python.
Right.
Def lamda return in is, that we've seen before.
Try, except, all these are the reserved words.
And as of our current version of Python,
that's it for now.
So there's not a whole lot to remember, but you know don't use those as identifer names.
So let's get to the conventions.
So let's take a look at what those conventions were, the ones I highlighted.
So if you have a single underscore in front of your identifier name, let's say you create a variable
in a module and you name it _my_var. Because it starts with a single underscore,
it is a convention that is used to indicate that this is an internal or a private object.
There is no concept of private really in Python.
Everything is public.
So, you know, basically we're saying: hey I want to indicate to anyone looking at my code or anyone using
my code that they really shouldn't mess around with this variable, so I'm going to give it an underscore.
You know as the first character.
So that is really just a convention.
Now what happens though is that if you run let's say from module import stuff.
And this underscore my_var is inside this module, then it will not be imported.
So the Python interpreter looks at that and says OK you probably mean this to be a private object, so
it doesn't import it.
Now that doesn't mean you can't access it.
You can still access it, you know, you can't import it this way.
But there are other ways to access it.
OK let's look at the double underscore. Now the double underscore is used for something called name mangling
that we'll look at in detail when we do the object oriented section, and name mangling basically changes
your variable name in a very set way, that can be useful for inheritance chains.
If you have the same name, the same let's say attribute. Let's say you do a you know property in a class
and you have the same attributes in a chain of classes.
Then how do you differentiate which is which?
And this is when the name mangling comes in.
And so when you want that to happen you use this Dunder in front of your property name, for example. I
will see that a lot more detail.
And the last one is the one that starts and ends with a double underscore.
So dunder my_var dunder.
That has a very specific thing.
These are really system defined names, so Python kind of reserves its naming convention in this way for
certain things. And it has a special meaning to the interpreter.
Which means don't invent them.
Now let's don't go and create your own variables that start and end with a double underscore to stick
to the ones that are predefined by Python.
Now what are they.
Well there's a slew of them and we all will see a lot of them throughout this course.
But for example you know you have the __init__() method, you know, to initialize a class. While that's the double
underscore init double underscore function.
And then when you create a new class it will call that particular function, it's going to look for that
function.
Now the same thing happens.
Let's say you have two objects x and y, that are instances of you know that say some custom class that
you've written and you want to compare them you want to say X less than Y. Then what's going to happen
is that the Python interpreter is actually going to run this underscore underscore lt underscore underscore
method that it expects to find in this object and then pass it the object Y.
So this operator here actually gets evaluated by using this expression over here.
And again, Python will look specifically for this method name when it finds less then.
So that's why these are system defined.
Don't invent some. You'll never know what could happen in future versions of Python.
Maybe, you know, whatever you decided to use gets used.
You know, in the Python standard later.
And then there's going to be a conflict between the two potentially.
OK.
So other naming conventions, and this is just a very very small excerpt of the PEP 8 style guide, if you
want to look it up.
I really strongly suggest that you read it.
It's not that long; it's a very interesting read actually and it's called PEP 8.
Just do a google search for PEP 8 or Python PEP 8, and you'll get it and I'll show you the link
in a few minutes.
So this is how we name different things like packages. So packages should be short names, all lowercase
names and preferably no underscores.
So for example you might create a package called utilities, right.
Note everything is lowercase, a single word and no underscores.
That's the preferred style for naming packages. - For modules,
we also want short, all-lowercase names, but they can have underscores.
So for example db_utils would be fine, as would be dbutils in one word as well.
Really only start using the underscores if you really need it to differentiate the words maybe in your
module. - Classes.
Now classes is different.
The convention is to use cap words or upper case, which means that all the words are linked together,
there are no underscores, but the beginning of each word is an uppercase letter including the first letter
of the variable. - Functions. Well, functions should be lowercase and the words can be separated by underscores
which is called snake_case.
Right.
So for example open_account.
So this might be a method in your BankAccount class called open_account. Variables should be lowercase
words separated by underscores.
Snake_case same as functions.
So basically we follow the same convention for naming variables as we do for naming functions.
So for example, acount_id. - Constants are all uppercase and all the words are separated by
underscores.
So for example minimum annual percentage rate, MIN_APR would be a valid constant name.
Now obviously you don't have to follow those conventions,
you can follow your own conventions.
You also may want to follow conventions if specially if it's let's say an external interface that you're
providing to you or to other people and it may need to conform to what they're used to, in which case that's
fine.
You know there's nothing wrong with breaking away from conventions as long as you try and remain consistent
within your own code.
But these are best practices, and they've been fairly well thought out, and so it's really I think recommended
to read that style guide or at least skim through it and see what the main points are.
So you can find it at this link over here.
But again the easiest to do a search for Pep 8 and you will find that link to there.
There's lots of other things that they mention in that. In particular this quote by Emerson:
Foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
And that's kind of what they start off with.
So it's a guide.
It's a style guide.
It doesn't mean that you have to follow it and you don't have to follow it all the time without thinking.
Sometimes you want to break away from your convention for some reason or other, that's perfectly fine.
The main goal really of all this is to make your code readable, and by following these guides is you
make your code standardized in such a way that another Python developer that's used to that guide will
understand without having to go and look into your code in detail, that's something written this way
is a constant.
Something written this way is a class.
These could be you know function names or variable names.
That's fine.
You know, but it helps to really kind of understand how the code sometimes is structured.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.